For the user allocation we got another package built into export which we can easily use and that's
location package.
No justice before you install it by following the instructions here and then you also see a usage example
down there.
So let's quickly do that.
Let's run Expo install Expo dash location in our project and with it installed we can now also add a
number of component besides the image picker component.
I'll add the location picker J as file because that's another thing I want to be able to do in this
app I want to be able to pick well location for debt in the location picker component.
I'll import react from react of course because it will be a regular react component in the end and import
a couple of things from react native and amongst these things is the view a button which allows us to
start getting the user location some text all the to show a default fallback text while no place has
been selected an activity indicator to show a spinner whilst we're waiting for the location to be fetched
and maybe also alert to show an alert if something goes wrong and also the stalls should of course to
stall this component.
Now here I have my location picker component which receives props and then we'll do something set up
the styles object with style sheet create and in the end export the location picture component here
as the default like that now for that component how should its JS exe code look like.
Ultimately that's as always up to you but I will start very simple here and just have a view with a
button in there.
Which will allow me to start getting the user location and also a never view in there which shows for
example my fallback text no location chosen yet which will later be replaced for a little preview of
the place on a map.
So that's something I'll add later here on the button all day for say
user location for example set the color to colors start primary and for that as always make sure you
import that color is constant and up on pressing design Well unsurprisingly want to start fetching the
user location.
So here I'll add a new constant get location handler which is a function that will then use that location
API we just installed to well get the user location and that's what I trigger when I click this button
now for the styling here I'll add a style location picker on this view here I'll add another style map
preview we could all install this text but I'll stick to the default and now add these two styles to
the style sheet so location picker here they're all at a margin to the bottom of let's say 15 and on
the map preview they're all all the ad margin to the bottom of let's say 10 and the width of one hundred
percent to take all the available with a height of maybe one hundred and fifty.
And also border color OFT is a grayish color with D CCC hex code and a border width of one.
It's a little bit like the image preview box with that we have this component set up.
We can now included in the new place screen.
So in that screen component all the location picker from components location picker like this and added
into J is X code below the image picker just like that.
If we now save that and we have a look we see this box here.
Now when I click get user location unsurprisingly the idea is that I will start getting the user location
for that in our location picker a component will need to import some things here will import everything
as location from the expo location package which we just installed in addition for location justice
for the camera will have to ask for permissions so we'll input everything as permissions from Expo permissions
that's also required with that added here in the get location handler I have first of all want to check
my permissions and for Dad I can copy the approach I use in the image picker there we have this verify
permissions function which we could of course therefore also outsource and write in a more generic way
to work in different components here I'll just copy it verify permissions of course here I'm not asking
for the camera roll but for a location instead and you need to grand location permissions to use does
app and now verify permissions is executed here in the get location handler we can use async await here
again to await the result of this check so has permission is what I want to check here and if not so
if we don't have permissions well then I'll just return here.
There is no need to continue because will not be allowed to fetch the location anyways now otherwise
we can't continue and now we can use the location package to get to current position async and this
does what the name implies it gets the current user position now locating the user can take a while
which is why it is this an asynchronous task and why this returns a promise a promise which will resolve
once we got the user location or which will be rejected if it fails to fetch one we can also configure
this with an object you pass to it again as always in the official box you learn all about all options
you can set there for example one option you can set us a timeout and set us to five time out and set
us to five seconds to make sure that if we couldn't fetch a location for five seconds we stop trying
and we throw an error.
So the promise would then be rejected.
Now we can await this and of course wrap it into a try catch block that's important to make sure we
do handle errors if we fail to fetch a location here I will then simply use the alert component which
I'm already importing to an alert could not fetch location and then here please try again later or pick
a location on the map which is not possible right now but which will soon add and here a button where
we say OK so that's an alert I show if fetching you a location failed for some reason.
Eyebrow wise here.
I expect to get back a location.
So that's the result of this promise in the end.
A location which we can use.
Now we can then utilize this location with the help of U.S. state to manage some internal state here
that's the picked location and set picked location and there we can call U.S. State which has no initial
value here.
And then here in the location handler we can set the picked location.
Q Well to something we'll have to see to what for now to now but before we said anything here let's
actually console log location to get a feeling for what's inside there.
Now I also want to show a spinner whilst we are fetching soul manage never state in here and that city
is fetching state and initially that is of course false.
But initially we're not fetching.
But then you're in the get location handler before we start getting the location all set is fetching
to troop.
And once we're done and that also includes if we got an error.
So thereafter I'll set it back to false and now we can use as fetching to show a spinner whilst we are
fetching.
So here it is fetching as true I'll show the activity indicator and only otherwise I'll show this text
and later will of course not just show the text but will also show a map snippet.
Now the activity indicator can be configured.
We can set the size to large and the color to color is the primary if you want to with all that.
Let's go back and give it a try.
Hero Nye west because whilst I can't add a image here at least I can check the location and click on
get user location and I'm asked whether I want to grant permissions which I do want to allow.
Always allow and well you see that spinner it's super fast because it's a simulator it also by the way
it simulates the location it's not the real location of your computer where you're running the zone
instead it's set default dummy location in San Francisco and here on Android it's the same if I click
get user location here I need to grant permissions once I did that you see the spinner here and then
you will see nothing but in the logs of course you see something there you see the objects which were
being locked where you have a coords sup object so to say so a field named coords and the object which
is a no object with dy accuracy and then a latitude longitude paired that describes this fake location
both simulators use fake locations you also got a timestamp.
So now we know what's in there.
So we can set the pick location we can now set this to let's say an object where you store a latitude
of location dot keywords the latitude that's what's in there right and along it you'd LNG off location
dot keywords stored long etude.
So now we have that picked location available and that picked location can now be used to for example
show a little map snippet here.
Once we do have a location before I do that just one tiny thing I want to make sure that both the text
and the spin in here is centered so on the map preview I'll actually also set justified content to center
and a line items to center so that all the content in there is centered horizontally and vertically
that's just a tiny thing.
So now you see that all in the center.
But with that let's now make sure we show a little map snippet that shows the location the user picked.